## Structural connectivity.

Diffusion MRI measures how **anistropic** the movement of water is, with the basic principle that myelinated tissue will create more **anistropic** water movement.. One particular type of analysis that describes the structural organization of the white matter using this data is **structural connectivity**. **Structural connectivity** characterizes connected different regions are by computing the number of **diffusion tractography streamlines** that terminate into a particular region. The rationale is that regions that have greater density of streamline terminations have greater connectivity with the regions where those streamlines also terminate. These density values are stored in what is known as a connectivity matrix. Each position in the matrix represents the the connectivity between two particular regions. 

From these matrices, scientists can then examine properties that describe the inter-relatedness of many regions. These properties can be used to identify **network-level** inter-individual differences in a large cohort.

This page demonstrates how to generate structural connectivity matrices on brainlife.io. The goal of this tutorial is to show you how to generate structural connectivity matrices following dMRI preprocessing and tractography. This tutorial will be using [Multi-atlas Transfer Tool (MaTT)](https://brainlife.io/app/5aeb34f2f446980028b15ef0) to map the Glasser 180-node cortical atlas to preprocessed Freesurfer surfaces and [fMRI Connectivity Matrix Generation](https://brainlife.io/app/5c720cf63e2f2c0030a23486), [anatomically-constrained tractography](https://brainlife.io/app/5aac2437f0b5260027e24ae1) to generate whole-brain tractograms, and [network matrices](https://brainlife.io/app/5bcdefeadc47f70026e8c6ac) to compute the connectivity between each region in the atlas.

This tutorial will use a combination of skills developed in the [Introduction tutorial](https://brainlife.io/docs/tutorial/introduction-to-brainlife/) and presumes that you have data processed using [dMRI Preprocessing](https://brainlife.io/docs/tutorial/diffusion-preprocessing/), and [diffusion tractography](https://brainlife.io/docs/tutorial/diffusion-tractography/). If you are not comfortable archiving, staging, and running apps on brainlife.io, please go back through that tutorial before beginning this one.

### 1. Anatomical preprocessing.

The first step of structural network generation often involves processing the anatomical images. In order to guarantee that any generalizations regarding location made from the preprocessed diffusion data is anatomically-informed, we must have both of our anatomical (T1w or T2w) images and our diffusion MRI images **aligned**. One way we can make this easier for [MrTrix3 Preprocessing](https://brainlife.io/app/5a813e52dc4031003b8b36f9) is by aligning the anatomical images in such a way that center of the brain is centered in the image. We refer to this as **ACPC-aligned**, as we are aligning the data to the **anterior commissure-posterior comissure plane**. This is the first step in dMRI preprocessing, and is typically done with the [HCP ACPC Alignment (T1w)](https://brainlife.io/app/5c61c69f14027a01b14adcb3) app. In order to map the Glasser 180-node atlas using the [Multi-Atlas Transfer Tool](https://brainlife.io/app/5aeb34f2f446980028b15ef0) and compute the streamline density between each region, we first need to generate cortical and white matter surfaces, and brain region parcellations, using [Freesurfer](https://brainlife.io/app/58c56d92e13a50849b258801). Once our anatomical image is aligned, our surfaces are generated, and the Glasser 180-node cortical atlas is mapped, we can move onto diffusion preprocessing. 

### 2. Diffusion preprocessing 

The next step in diffusion preprocessing is to actually preprocess the diffusion data. dMRI data, like any other MRI dataset, is quite noisy. Just like fMRI, dMRI data is sensitive to **susceptibility distortions**. This is when regions of the brain look "wavy" or fold inward or outward on itself in images. This is due to how the scanner sweeps across the entire brain during acquisition. Also, dMRI data is very susceptible to **motion**. Because some scans take a long time, it is nearly impossible for a participant to lie completely motionless. Even the most subtle movements can alter the results in a specific region and make your data less accurate. Finally, movement of the magnetic gradients can induce electromagnetic currents which can affect the measurement in any given location. This is called **eddy currents**, and is due to the fact that electricity and magnetism are part of the same field - i.e. the *electromagnetic field*. We can correct for all of these common artifacts using [MrTrix3 Preprocessing](https://brainlife.io/app/5a813e52dc4031003b8b36f9).

In addition to these artifacts, dMRI has very low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), which directly impacts how well you can fit microstructural models and analyze diffusion data. This means that in any given location, the amount of diffusion signal is very low compared to the "noise" of the scanner. There are methods to lower the amount of noise across the brain, and thus increase the SNR. [MrTrix3 Preprocessing](https://brainlife.io/app/5a813e52dc4031003b8b36f9) has the capability to identify and remove noise using principal components analysis (PCA) and Rician analysis.

On top of these issues, dMRI data is sensitive to other artifacts and non-regularities, including **gibbs ringing and bias field inhomogeneities**, which can affect the quality of the data and how well measures can be derived from the data. [MrTrix3 Preprocessing](https://brainlife.io/app/5a813e52dc4031003b8b36f9) can deal with all of these issues for us!

Finally, once the dMRI data is preprocessed and cleaned, [MrTrix3 Preprocessing](https://brainlife.io/app/5a813e52dc4031003b8b36f9) will align the dMRI data to the anatomical data. This will ensure that any analyses we do with the dMRI data will be anatomically-informed and biologically-relevant.

Useful information about preprocessing pipeline [MrTrix3 Preprocessing](https://brainlife.io/app/5a813e52dc4031003b8b36f9) is designed to run -- Diffusion Parameter EStimation with Gibbs and NoisE Removal (DESIGNER) -- can be found in this [original Neuroimage paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30077743-evaluation-of-the-accuracy-and-precision-of-the-diffusion-parameter-estimation-with-gibbs-and-noise-removal-pipeline/).

### 3. Diffusion modelling & anatomically-informed ensemble tractography.

Once the dMRI data has been cleaned and aligned to the anatomical (T1w) image, the next step is to map the underlying white matter anatomy using diffusion tractography. Diffusion tractography works by modelling how water is moving throughout the brain based on the principle of **anisotropy** -- that water will move unequally in a particular direction given a physical constraint. In the case of diffusion MRI, this constraint comes from the myelin wrapping the many axons arranged into bundles known as **fasicles**. There are common groupings of these **fasicles**, known as **white matter tracts**, based on their terminations into the cortex. Diffusion tractography generates **streamlines** that act as evidence of underlying white matter organization. We can bundle these **streamlines** into common **white matter tracts** *digitally*, just as we can bundle **fasciles** into **tracts** using histological methods.

The first step is to fit models of diffusion at each location in the dMRI image that can be used as a guide for the tractography algorithms. The most popular model for this is known as **constrained spherical deconvolution**, or **CSD**. **CSD** allows for the possibility of multiple **fasicles** entering a single location that may have different trajectories, which is a major advantage of the model over other models of diffusion. The **CSD** model at each location can tell the tracking algorithm **how strongly** and in **what direction** water is diffusing in the brain, and thus where organized and myelinated white matter is likely to be.

Once we know the direction of water movement using the **CSD** model, we can then perform **diffusion tractography** to map the underlying organized white matter. **Diffusion tractography** *sews* together regions with common directions of water movement into **streamlines** that provide evidence for organized, myelinated white matter. These operations can be done millions of times across the entire brain to form **tractograms**. There are many algorithms for doing this that fall into two main categories -- **deterministic** and **probabilistic**. **Determinstic** algorithms work by strictly following the directions of water movement, while **probabilistic** algorithms infer a probability of different directions of water movement at any given location. **Deterministic** tractography tends to be an overly conservative representation of the white matter, as modelling is never perfectly accurate. **Probabilistic** tractography tends to provide *hairy* streamline representations, as the model allows for a probability of different directions of water movement at any given location. Recently, it was discovered that combining both algorithms -- i.e. **ensembling** them -- provides the most anatomically-accurate **tractograms**.

On brainlife.io, we have combined **ensemble tractography** with **anatomically-constrained tractography (ACT)**, which restricts streamline representations to those that are biologically-plausible, in a single [Ensemble ACT Tractography](https://brainlife.io/app/5aac2437f0b5260027e24ae1) app! Within this app, the **CSD** model will be fit and **tractography** will be performed generating **whole-brain tractograms**. In combination, a model of white matter microstructure -- diffusion tensor (DTI) -- will be fit and maps of fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), radial diffusivity (RD), and axial diffusivity (AD) will be generated.

More information on **ensemble tractography** can be found in this [PLOS Computational Biology](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004692) paper. More information on **ACT** can be found in this [Neuroimage](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22705374-anatomically-constrained-tractography-improved-diffusion-mri-streamlines-tractography-through-effective-use-of-anatomical-information/) article.

### 4. Generate structural connectivity matrices.

Once the whole brain tractograms have been generated, we can now compute the streamline density between each region and generate our **structural connectivity matrices**. These matrices can then be used to derive **network-related** measures of the organization of the white matter of an individual, or common properties amongst groups. For this tutorial, we will use [network matrices](https://brainlife.io/app/5bcdefeadc47f70026e8c6ac) to generate our structural connectivity matrix.

Now, let's get to work! The following steps of this tutorial will show you how to:

1. ACPC-align the anatomical (T1w) image,
1. Generate Freesurfer surfaces and parcellations,
1. Map Glasser 180-node cortical atlas to the surface,
1. Preprocess dMRI data,
1. Perform diffusion tractography,
1. and generate network matrices from the regions of the Glasser 180-node atlas.
